# Master Thesis - Bridging the Gap: An NLP-based Approach to Compare CSR Reports and News Coverage and Identify Greenwashing
This repository contains all the code for my MScBA Business Analytics & Management thesis. A link to the Erasmus University Thesis Repository can be found [here](https://thesis.eur.nl/pub/71845) . 

Under the `data_collection_pre-processing` folder, you will find the code used to gather news data from Google News using the GNews package and the pre-processing of the sustainability reports and additional NexisUni articles (with most of the code for the PDF pre-processing being re-used from https://github.com/llbtl/paper_ssm01).
Under the `analysis` folder, you will find the code used for topic modelling and calculation of the greenwashing scores using various NLP techniques. Note: Outputs and Visualizations are not included as part of the notebooks for memory purposes and to avoid any potential legal issues from including article texts here. Some generated visualizations can be found in the `visualizations` folder in `analysis`. 

## Abstract
This study aims to explore how NLP techniques can be used to quantify greenwashing. To achieve this, we make use of a conceptual discrepancy framework proposed in a previous study to define greenwashing as the measure of discrepancy between a company's symbolic actions and its substantive actions. As a new contribution to theory, we derive the symbolic actions from a company's sustainability report text and substantive actions from its news coverage text. Additionally, compared to previous studies, this paper proposes a new way to measuring such discrepancy through the use of NLP techniques, namely text similarity, sentiment analysis and claim verification. Each of the techniques is applied at a firm and topic level to develop a total of six scores. We then compare their performance by conducting a correlation analysis between each of the scores and a greenwashing measure constructed using data from the Refinitiv ESG database. We find that the sentiment analysis based firm-level score is the only developed measure that has a positive significant correlation with the Refinitiv derived index. Initial exploratory analysis also indicates that the performance of our measure changes based on the amount of news coverage a company receives and the sector it belongs to. 

